# python-api-challenge
The GWU bootcamp API week 6 challenge. 

This project was conducted for the GWU bootcamp. The main goal of the project was to get familiar with using API’s to request data and then run an analysis on this data. A very interesting project which I enjoyed working on.

We worked in three files. One containing the API Key’s used in this project. This file was prevented from being uploaded to github by using a .gitignore file. The two Jupiter Notebooks used are the WeatherPy notebook which extracted the weather data per city and the VacationPy notebook in which the data was further refined to focus on destinations and hotels.

WeaherPy
In this notebook firstly the libraries needed were imported. After which a random set of cities was generated that we used in the analysis. After the cities were generated the OpenWeatherMap API was used to get the weather datapoints per city.
The weather data per city was exported to a csv document so this can be used in the vacation notebook.

4 scatterplots were generated to show the correlation between the latitude and the wind, temperature, cloudiness and the humidity. 
After these graphs were created the dataset was split into two parts the northern hemisphere and the southern hemisphere. 
These dataset where used to create 8 linear regression plots. To analyze the correlation between the latitude and the wind, temperature, cloudiness and the humidity for each of the two datasets. These plots were generated by placing the code in a function and rerunning the function for each comparison.

VacationPy
First we read the dataset generated in the WeatherPy Notebook. Then using hvplot we generate a dot on the map for each city. Then the dataset is filtered on the conditions of what seems to me ideal weather to go on a holiday. This new dataset is then used to collect hotels in these cities using the Geoapify API with a range of 10.000 meters from the len/lan coordinates.

The in the map the hotal name and the country was added as hover data in the hvplot.

Overall a fun project to work on. I used the general in this project for a work project to extract container information from ocean carriers at work. I found it interesting to see how with minor tweaks I could apply the lessons from the project in a real world use case after the project was completed.

